un's Top Court is set to rule on a
request for Germany to Halt military aid
to Israel the case was filed by
Nicaragua which argues that Berlin is
failing to prevent genocide or uphold
International humanitarian law it's the
latest case involving Israel before the
international court of justice South
Africa approached the court in December
accusing Israel of committing
genocide and then the US has found five
Israeli military units responsible for
gross human rights violations in the
occupied West Bank this is the first
time Washington has reached such a
conclusion now these incidents took
place before the war on Gaza in October
despite the findings the state
department said the units have not been
sanctioned paty cohain
explains for weeks we've been waiting
for the US state department to announce
the results of its investigation into
whether certain units in Israel's
Defense Forces committed gross
violations of human rights the reason is
the secret Secretary of State himself
Anthony Lincoln said earlier this month
that he had made the determination now
this is important because if it is found
that these certain units violated human
rights there's laws inside the United
States it says no US military aid can go
to those units while we now know it's
unlikely to happen four of these units
have effectively remediated these
violations which is what we expect
Partners to do um it is uh consistent
with uh what we expect all countries
whom with we have a security
relationship the deputy spokesman here
at the state department was repeatedly
pressed on this issue and he just simply
wouldn't answer the questions such as
what exactly were the gross violations
of human rights what units were involved
exactly how did Israel remediate the
situation and what kind of information
Israel provided again he simply wouldn't
say padal h Al jazer at the state
department
let's go to Stephanie deer joining us
now from occupied East Jerusalem so
we've known for at least a couple of
days now that Washington is considering
the imposition of sanctions on this uh
Israeli military Battalion accused of
abuses against Palestinians tell us more
about this military unit and their
alleged
activities yes this came out last week
the NSA Yehuda Battalion they are an
Ultra orthod Ox Battalion a lot of the
soldiers there actually live in the
occupied West Bank um last week when we
covered it uh the Americans had said
that they would be sanctioning this
particular unit this unit was moved out
of the West Bank in 2022 when the
incident happened one of the incidents
um believed to be part of the charges is
that they killed a 78-year-old
Palestinian American juel citizen they
bounded him gagged him and left him to
die in subfreezing temperatures in the
occupied West Bank now you were
mentioning there four other battalions
they haven't been named uh but you were
talking about uh you heard Patty there
questioning what allegations this all
came to light uh with an investigation
and an article proa um it's an American
Body did just a couple of weeks ago they
have a few of the allegations including
the 78-year-old Palestinian American
that I mentioned but they also accused
the Border Police this is not part of
the army but it is part of the security
forces saying EX judicial killings by
the Border Police and then one other
allegation they mention these are the
only three that in that interrogators
tortured and raped a teenager accused of
throwing Molotov cocktail so the bigger
picture is this um you heard there from
Patty they believe that four of the
units have remediated meaning they're
now fine and they will continue to
receive military aid the NS Yuda
Battalion last week wasn't going to
receive military aid now they've given
Israel more time to look into it also
why because of the massive backlash at
the time if you have Israel's biggest
allly it's biggest supplier of military
aid actually recognizing in a way that
its security forces are responsible for
gross human rights violations against
the Palestinians something that the
Palestinians will tell you happens on a
daily basis uh there's been massive
backlash the Israeli Prime Minister
saying that he would fight any sanctions
personally you had the ministry of
Defense you had really across the
political spectrum because you simply do
not criticize the Army in Israel so I
think significantly certainly that this
is now being highlighted that the
American recommendations is that some of
these should be shankton but interesting
as you heard from Patty is that US
Secretary of State uh blinken had been
sitting on this report since December uh
and so far really nothing has been done
about it thank you very much Stephanie
Decker let's now bring in Salman shik
he's the founder of the peace building
organization the Shea group and a former
un official and it's important to bear
in mind that there has been a long
running History of Violence Against
Palestinians in the occupied West Bank
but this has seen a sharp acceleration
since October
the the involvement of this particular
Battalion precedes October and it seems
as though Washington is going in the
direction of uh not imposing sanctions
as far as we know well it's part of a
pattern that we've seen where the United
States and the Administration have
provided cover and made excuses for the
actions of prime minister netanyahu's
government and those of the Israeli Army
um on the ground that cannot hold the
walls are closing in international law
has to be administered otherwise we will
see the event of particularly Joe Biden
but also Western
countries effectively
cannibalizing international law and the
rules-based international order which
they themselves set up after the horrors
of the second world war tell me hasn't
that already happened well yes uh of
course we have ample evidence and those
who have committed those grave
violations of international humanitarian
law whether they are Hamas or other
Palestinian groups but also the Israeli
Army where they have been
disproportionate from the start in terms
of their operations but of course as you
said this has happened for a very long
time this cannot continue and you know
the rest of the world as I go through
diplomatic offices and and capitals
around the
world everyone knows that there is a
there is now a grave situation and it's
probably again the Biden Administration
coming back to your original question
which can turn us away from from where
we are right now and in terms of the
Grave situation it seems as though we
are seeing countries in the developing
world in the global South but are are
taking measures to try and push back
against it we were just mentioning that
Nicaragua had initiated proceedings
against Germany this was back in in
March they were going to see some uh
progress on that today accusing Berlin
of facilitating genocide in Gaza by
providing support to Israel how
important is this case not just for Gaza
but for any state that
manufactures uh and supplies weapons
that are ultimately used to commit
violations of uh International
humanitarian law well it should be of
grave concern to Berlin it should be of
grave concern to the German chancellory
um because it's something which I
believe is a part of a pattern which
we'll continue to see we've seen how
South Africa originally initiated the
the case in the icj against Israel and
now we see uh Nicaragua and the global
South which we need as part of a of an
alliance in the changing geopolitics of
the globe is no longer accepting that
and it is the reason why I think uh
European capitals and Washington again
have to think really hard about their
actions including the supply of Weaponry
um to the Israeli Army offensive
weaponry and which is now also reflected
in their campuses of University that I
myself have seen in Paris or in
Washington but I suppose in recognizing
that uh these crimes are taking place
given Washington's incredible financial
and uh military support for Israel that
there that then there would be some sort
of recognition that uh they too are
complicit in what is happening well they
would implicate themselves well this is
the case being made by Americans it's
the case being made by Germans or other
Europeans and it's being made by those
younger people particularly in the
United States who do matter we have a
1968 moment in my view going on right
now and you remember what happened in
1968 the democratic convention was held
in Chicago in August well it's going to
happen again this year in 196 this year
in
2024 and if this war does not stop if we
don't then start to rebuild
Gaza and allow the population to um uh
to be able to go back to their homes as
well as to hold accountable those who
have been part of the Grave violations
of international humanitarian law which
have taken place then I fear that
President Biden is going to meet the
same fate um that uh the Democrats did
then in 1968 when they lost the election
and the in terms of the significance of
is happening you mentioned the student
protest and perhaps something we've not
seen before is that we now see teachers
and professors that are prepared to get
involved who was facing disciplinary
action and in some cases sacrificing uh
reputations and careers uh in order to
take us down does that surprise
you not entirely no um I think not
something we've seen before perhaps well
it's the weight of evidence um of course
we've seen it in the past in terms of
other protest movements I myself was
leading the anti-apartheid group in my
university in the
1990s and 2000s um but uh but you know
it's it's a particularly heightened
situation now I think back to when I
used to visit Professor Edward S in
Columbia University when I was working
for the UN when I was actually working
for the UN Middle East peace en boy and
he always said that you cannot hold
truth back and that is what we're seeing
now so on thank you very much thank
you make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from Al